README.md, before:

viki-fabric-helpers
===================

A library of [Fabric](http://www.fabfile.org/) helper functions used in some
of Viki's projects.

## Installation

To your `requirements.txt` file, add this line:

    -e git://github.com/viki-org/viki-fabric-helpers.git#egg=viki-fabric-helpers

This installs the `viki-fabric-helpers` library from the master branch of this
git repository.

## Example Usage

```python
import os.path
from viki.fabric.helpers import get_home_dir, copy_file_to_server_if_not_exists

homeDir = get_home_dir()
# copy `users.db` locally to homeDir/users.db on the server, if that does
# not exist on the server
copy_file_to_server_if_not_exists('users.db',
  os.path.join(homeDir, 'users.db')
)
```

More functions are available in the `viki/fabric/helpers.py` and
`viki/fabric/git.py` files.

## Generating documentation

Install Sphinx:

    pip install Sphinx

Go into the `docs` folder, then run:

    make html

## TODO

A lot of work is needed to present more user-friendly documentation (especially
for the functions under the `viki.fabric.git` module), but every single function
has a docstring.

Commit message:

Add build script for generating documentation
We only discovered that the Sphinx autodoc extension imports the modules
listed in `import` statements (and similar) when processing Python source
files. (See: http://sphinx-doc.org/latest/ext/autodoc.html)

This means that we will need to have the modules present for generating
documentation, including those from 3rd party libraries. We were not
getting failures previously due to these libraries available
system-wide.

This patch features a build script for generating the documentation, and
is a one command solution doing so. Yep, we know humans are lazy.

Signed-off-by: Pang Yan Han <yanhan@viki.com>

README.md, after:

viki-fabric-helpers
===================

A library of [Fabric](http://www.fabfile.org/) helper functions used in some
of Viki's projects.

## Installation

To your `requirements.txt` file, add this line:

    -e git://github.com/viki-org/viki-fabric-helpers.git#egg=viki-fabric-helpers

This installs the `viki-fabric-helpers` library from the master branch of this
git repository.

## Example Usage

```python
import os.path
from viki.fabric.helpers import get_home_dir, copy_file_to_server_if_not_exists

homeDir = get_home_dir()
# copy `users.db` locally to homeDir/users.db on the server, if that does
# not exist on the server
copy_file_to_server_if_not_exists('users.db',
  os.path.join(homeDir, 'users.db')
)
```

More functions are available in the `viki/fabric/helpers.py` and
`viki/fabric/git.py` files.

## Generating documentation

Execute this script:

    ./build_docs.sh

The docs will be generated at the `docs/build` folder.

## TODO

A lot of work is needed to present more user-friendly documentation (especially
for the functions under the `viki.fabric.git` module), but every single function
has a docstring.
